Assignment_1
lists
steps:
The first line contains an integer, denoting the number of commands.
insert i e-inserts value e at index i
print-print list
remove e-removes e from the list
append e-adds e to the list
sort-sorted the list
pop- remove element at the end
reverse-reverse the list
print-prints the list

Input Format:
The first line contains an integer,n , denoting the number of commands.
Each line i of the n subsequent lines contains one of the commands described above.

Constraints:
The elements added to the list must be integers.

Output Format:
For each command of type print, print the list on a new line.

Assignment_2
Finding the percentage

For a list of students. Print the average of the marks array for the
student name provided, showing 2 places after the decimal.

Input Format:

The first line contains the integer , the number of students' records. The next
lines contain the names and marks obtained by a student, each value separated by a space. The final
line contains query_name, the name of a student to query.

Output Format:

Print one line: The average of the marks obtained by the particular student correct to 2 decimal
places.

Assignment_3:

Finding runner up score


Given the participants' score sheet for your University Sports Day, you are required
to find the runner-up score. You are given n scores. Store them in a list and find the score of the
runner-up.

Input Format:

The first line contains n. The second line contains an array A[] of n integers each separated
by a space.

Output Format:
Print the runner-up score.

Assignment_4:
Mutations:

We have seen that lists are mutable (they can be changed), and tuples are immutable
(they cannot be changed).
Let's try to understand this with an example.
You are given an immutable string, and you want to make changes to it.


Task
Read a given string, change the character at a given index and then print the modified string.

Input:
The first line contains a string,string .
The next line contains an integer position, the index location and a string character, separated
by a space.

output:
print the altered string

Assignment_5:

Merge the tools:
Complete the merge_the_tools function in the editor below.

merge_the_tools has the following parameters:

string s: the string to analyze
int k: the size of substrings to analyze

Prints

Print each subsequence on a new line. There will be n/k of them. No return value is expected.

Assignment_6:
Text alignment:
In Python, a string of text can be aligned left, right and center

.ljust(width)

This method returns a left aligned string of length width.
.center(width)

This method returns a centered string of length width.
.center(width)

This method returns a centered string of length width.
Input Format

A single line containing the thickness value for the logo.
Output Format

Output the desired logo.

Assignment_7:
String formatting:
Given an integer,n , print the following values for each integer i  from 1 to n :

Decimal
Octal
Hexadecimal (capitalized)
Binary

Function Description

Complete the print_formatted function in the editor below.

print_formatted has the following parameters:

int number: the maximum value to print

Prints

The four values must be printed on a single line in the order specified above for each i from
1 to number .Each value should be space-padded to match the width of the binary value of number and
the values should be separated by a single space.

Assignment_8
calendar module:
The calendar module allows you to output calendars and provides additional useful functions for them.

class calendar.TextCalendar([firstweekday])

This class can be used to generate plain text calendars.

Input Format:

A single line of input containing the space separated month, day and year, respectively,
in MM DD YYYY   format.

Output Format:

Output the correct day in capital letters.


Assignment_9:
collections.namedtuple()
Basically, named tuples are easy to create, lightweight object types.
They turn tuples into convenient containers for simple tasks.
With named tuples, you don’t have to use integer indices for accessing members of a tuple.

Input Format:

The first line contains an integer N, the total number of students.
The second line contains the names of the columns in any order.
The next N lines contains the marks, id's,  name and class, under their respective column names.

Output Format:

Print the average marks of the list corrected to 2 decimal places.

Assignment_10:
Time delta:
When users post an update on social media,such as a URL, image, status update etc., other users in
their network are able to view this new post on their news feed. Users can also see exactly when
the post was published, i.e, how many hours, minutes or seconds ago.Since sometimes posts are
published and viewed in different time zones, this can be confusing. You are given two
timestamps of one such post that a user can see on his newsfeed in the following
format:

Day dd Mon yyyy hh:mm:ss +xxxx

Here +xxxx represents the time zone. Your task is to print the absolute difference (in seconds)
between them.

Input Format:

The first line contains T, the number of testcases.
Each testcase contains  2 lines, representing time t1 and time t2.

Output Format:
When users post an update on social media,such as a URL, image, status update etc., other users in
their network are able to view this new post on their news feed. Users can also see exactly when
the post was published, i.e, how many hours, minutes or seconds ago.

Since sometimes posts are published and viewed in different time zones, this can be confusing.
You are given two timestamps of one such post that a user can see on his newsfeed in the
following format:

Day dd Mon yyyy hh:mm:ss +xxxx
Here +xxxx represents the time zone. Your task is to print the absolute difference (in seconds)
between them.

Input Format:

The first line contains , the number of testcases.
Each testcase contains  lines, representing time  and time .

Constraints:

Input contains only valid timestamps
.
Output Format:

Print the absolute difference(t1-t2)  in seconds.

Assignment_11:
Floor, ceil and rint:
floor:
The tool floor returns the floor of the input element-wise.
The floor of x is the largest integer i  where i<=x.

ceil:
The tool ceil returns the ceiling of the input element-wise.
The ceiling of x is the smallest integer i where i>=x.

rint:
The rint tool rounds to the nearest integer of input element-wise.

Input Format:

A single line of input containing the space separated elements of array A.

Output Format:

On the first line, print the floor of A.
On the second line, print the  ceil of A.
On the third line, print the rint of A.

Assignment_12:
Min and Max:


min:

The tool min returns the minimum value along a given axis.
By default, the axis value is None. Therefore, it finds the minimum over all the
dimensions of the input array.

Max:

The tool max returns the maximum value along a given axis.
By default, the axis value is None. Therefore, it finds the maximum over all the dimensions of
the input array.

Task:

You are given a 2-D array with dimensions NXM.
Your task is to perform the min function over axis i and then find the max of that.

Input Format:

The first line of input contains the space separated values of N and M .
The next N lines contains M space separated integers.

Output Format:

Compute the min along axis 1 and then print the max of that result.

Assignment_13:
Linear algebra:

The NumPy module also comes with a number of built-in routines for linear algebra calculations.
These can be found in the sub-module linalg.

linalg.det:

The linalg.det tool computes the determinant of an array.

linalg.eig:

The linalg.eig computes the eigenvalues and right eigenvectors of a square array.

linalg.inv:

The linalg.inv tool computes the (multiplicative) inverse of a matrix.
Task:

You are given a square matrix A with dimensions NXN. Your task is to find the determinant.
Note: Round the answer to 2 places after the decimal.

Input Format:

The first line contains the integer N.
The next N lines contains the N space separated elements of array A .

Output Format:

Print the determinant of A.

Assignment_14:
No idea problem:

There is an array of n integers. There are also 2 disjoint sets, A and B, each containing m integers.
You like all the integers in set A and dislike all the integers in set B. Your initial happiness is 0.
For each i integer in the array, if i available in A, you add 1 to your happiness. If ,
i available in B you add -1 to your happiness.Otherwise, your happiness does not change.
Output your final happiness at the end.

Note: Since A and B are sets, they have no repeated elements. However, the array might contain
duplicate elements.

Input Format:

The first line contains integers n and m separated by a space.
The second line contains n integers, the elements of the array.
The third and fourth lines contain m integers, A and B, respectively.

Output Format:

Output a single integer, your total happiness.

Explanation:

You gain 1 unit of happiness for elements 3 and 1 in set A . You lose 1 unit for 5 in set B.
The element 7 in set B does not exist in the array so it is not included in the calculation.

Hence, the total happiness is 2-1=1.

Assignment_15:
word order:

You are given n words. Some words may repeat. For each word, output its number of occurrences.
The output order should correspond with the input order of appearance of the word. See the
sample input/output for clarification.

Note: Each input line ends with a "\n" character.

Input Format:

The first line contains the integer,n .
The next n lines each contain a word.

Output Format:

Output 2 lines.
On the first line, output the number of distinct words from the input.
On the second line, output the number of occurrences for each distinct word according to their
appearance in the input.

Explanation:

There are  distinct words. Here, "bcdef" appears twice in the input at the first and last positions.
The other words appear once each. The order of the first appearances are "bcdef", "abcdefg" and
"bcde" which corresponds to the output.

Assignment_16:
piling up:

There is a horizontal row of n cubes. The length of each cube is given. You need to create a new
vertical pile of cubes. The new pile should follow these directions: if cube[i] is on top of cube[j]
then side length[j]>=side length[i].When stacking the cubes, you can only pick up either the leftmost
or the rightmost cube each time.Print Yes if it is possible to stack the cubes. Otherwise, print No.

Input Format:

The first line contains a single integer T, the number of test cases.
For each test case, there are 2 lines.
The first line of each test case contains n, the number of cubes.
The second line contains n space separated integers, denoting the sideLengths of each cube in
that order.

Output:
For each test case, output a single line containing either Yes or No.

Explanation:

In the first test case, pick in this order: left -4 , right - 4, left -3 , right -3 , left - 2,
right - 1.In the second test case, no order gives an appropriate arrangement of vertical cubes.3
will always come after either 1 or 2.

Assignment_17:
iterables and iterators:

The itertools module standardizes a core set of fast, memory efficient tools that are useful by
themselves or in combination. Together, they form an iterator algebra making it possible to
construct specialized tools succinctly and efficiently in pure Python.

Input Format:

The input consists of three lines. The first line contains the integer N, denoting the length of
the list. The next line consists of N space-separated lowercase English letters, denoting the
elements of the list.
The third and the last line of input contains the integer K, denoting the number of indices to
be selected.

Output Format:

Output a single line consisting of the probability that at least one of the K indices selected
contains the letter:'a'.

Note: The answer must be correct up to 3 decimal places.

Assignment_18:
validate list of email addresses:

You are given an integer N followed by N email addresses. Your task is to print a list containing
only valid email addresses in lexicographical order.


Valid email addresses must follow these rules:

It must have the username@websitename.extension format type.
The username can only contain letters, digits, dashes and underscores [a-z],[A-Z],[0-9],[_-] .
The website name can only have letters and digits[a-z],[A-Z],[0-9] .
The extension can only contain letters [a-z],[A-Z] .
The maximum length of the extension is 3.

Constraints:

Each line is a non-empty string

Input Format:

The first line of input is the integer N, the number of email addresses.
N lines follow, each containing a string.

output Format:

It returns the valid email addresses
